IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL.

25, NO. 1, FEBRUARY 1990

289

A High-Swing, High-Impedance
MOS Cascode Circuit
EDUARD SACKINGER, STUDENT MEMBER, IEEE, AND
WALTER GUGGENBUHL, SENIOR MEMBER, IEEE

Absfracf-A simple cascode circuit with the gate voltage of the cascode
transistor being controlled by a feedback amplifier, and thus named a
“regulated cascode,” is presented. In comparison to the standard cascode
circuit, the minimum output voltage is lower by about 30 to 60 percent
while the output conductance and the feedback capacitance are lower by
about 100 times. An analytical large-signal, small-signal, and noise analysis
is carried out. Some applications like current mirrors and voltage amplifiers are discussed. Finally, experimental results confirming the theory are
presented.

I. INTRODUCTION

C

IRCUITS that behave like a MOS transistor but
feature a much higher output impedance and a significantly lower feedback capacitance are an important prerequisite for the design of high-performance analog circuits. If such a circuit is used in a tail current source of a
differential stage, the common-mode and power-supply
rejection ratios are improved. If it is used in a voltage
amplifier, a large dc gain factor and a single low-frequency
pole is obtained.
Typically such a “super transistor” is constructed by
stacking a second transistor with a fixed gate voltage on
top of the main transistor yielding a so-called cascode
circuit. Applications of this two-transistor circuit are, e.g.,
the cascode current mirror [l, p. 2331 or the cascode op
amp [l, p. 4101. These circuits show an increased output
impedance in comparison to the simple current mirror or
op amp, however, the usable output-voltage swing becomes
narrower. By choosing optimum bias conditions, this restriction can be somewhat relaxed. This is done so in the
so-called improvement cascode current source [ 1, p. 2261.
In this paper a circuit, called a regulated cascode or RGC
circuit, which further improves the respective characteristics, is presented (see Fig. 1). The output impedance is
even higher than that of the simple cascode, and the
output-voltage range usable for signal swing is enlarged
Manuscript received September 8, 1988; revised April, 1989.
E. Sackinger was with the Electronics Laboratory, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland. He is now with AT&T
Bell Laboratories, Holmdel, NJ 07733.
W. Guggenbuhl is with the Electronics Laboratory, Swiss Federal
Institute of Technology Zurich, ETH Zentrurn, CH-8092 Zurich, Switzerland.
IEEE Log Number 8932694.

Fig. 1. The RGC circuit (left) behaves like a “super transistor’’ (right).

compared to that of the optimally biased simple cascode
(OBC) circuit.
For VLSI and high-frequency circuits, transistors with
minimum feature size are often used. Such transistors
exhibit pronounced channel-length modulation and carrier
multiplication, even at relatively low voltages, as well as a
moderate transconductance. The maximum dc-voltage gain,
g,/g,,
achievable with these transistors is therefore restricted to relatively small values. Scaling devices down,
according to most scaling laws, further reduces this gain
[2]. In such cases the RGC circuit with minimum-size
transistors can be applied to obtain a small circuit area,
good frequency response, and high dc gain simultaneously.
The operating principle of the RGC circuit shown in
Fig. 1 is briefly described as follows. Transistor T, converts the input voltage U, into a drain current i, that flows
through the drain-source path of T2 to the output terminal. To obtain a high output resistance, i.e., to suppress
channel-length modulation of T,, the respective
drain-source voltage must be kept stable. In the simple,
that is nonregulated cascode circuit, this is done by loading
the drain with the low source input resistance of the
stacked transistor T2. In the regulated cascode this is
accomplished by a feedback loop consisting of an amplifier (T3 and I,) and T2 as a follower. In this way the
drain-source voltage of TI is regulated to a fixed value.
Please note that the feedback mechanism upon which the
stabilization is based works even if T, is driven into the
ohmic operating region, which extends the usable range for
the output signal.
In Section I1 the output swing, the small-signal parameters, the noise characteristics, and the transient behavior of
the proposed circuit are analyzed. Some applications like
current sources, current mirror, and voltage amplifiers are

0018-9200/90/0200-0289$01.00 01990 IEEE

IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 25. NO. 1, FEBRUARY 1990

290

given in Section 111. In the last section, experimental
results are presented and put into relation with the theory.
11. ANALYSIS

A . Output Swing
In the following, the selection of the operating point for
the RGC circuit is discussed. Furthermore, we will derive
analytical expressions for the output swing showing the
superiority of the RGC circuit over the OBC circuit like,
e.g., the improved cascode current source.
The subsequent calculations of the large-signal performance are based on the simple quadratic strong-inversion
model of the MOS transistor [l,p. 1001 ignoring channellength modulation. There are several reasons for choosing
t h s simple model. 1) Although no precise numerical results can be expected from it, the obtained formulas remain simple and show the basic dependence of the typical
characteristics on the design parameters. 2) The design
rules usually given for the improved cascode current source
are based on the above model, i.e., the edge of saturation is
assumed to be at U,, - VTH.Therefore a reasonable comparison with the regulated cascode is only possible if the
same model is applied here.
In the following discussion of the optimal biasing, the
input voltage is assumed to be constant, uI = VI = V,, (see
Fig. 1). If we require T, to operate in saturation, its drain
voltage uDSl must exceed VGsl-VTH.To maximize the
voltage swing, the lowest possible quiescent value for uDSl
satisfying this condition should be realized. Since the quiescent voltage V,,, is mainly determined by the feedback
amplifier (T,, Zl),this condition leads to a design equation
for p3 and Z,, assuming that T3 operates in strong inversion:

Fig. 2. Transistor gate and drain voltages of the RGC circuit as a
function of the output voltage uo.

mentioned restriction no longer applies, because the gate
voltage of T3 may now assume lower values than that
given on the right-hand side of (1). Using the simple
drain-current equation for weak inversion, i, = W / L .IDo.
exp { uGs/( nV,)) [l, p, 1261, the design equation for optimum biasing becomes

This condition can be fulfilled for any input voltage larger
than VTH.
Fig. 2 illustrates the performance of the RGC circuit for
low output voltages uo. The figure is drawn for a fixed
input voltage ur = V,,,. If the circuit is biased according
(1) or (2), uDsl is one threshold below V,,, for high output
voltages. In order to conduct the output current, uG2 must
be somewhat more than one threshold voltage above uDS1.
(Note that the figure is drawn from the case when T, and
T2 have different dimensions.) If uo is decreased starting
from h g h values in Fig. 2, we see that at point (I) uo has
dropped by one threshold below U,*, meaning that T2
enters into the ohmic operation region. Under this condition more gate voltage for T2 is needed to conduct the
current asserted by T,; the respective increase of U,, is
realized by the feedback amplifier (T,, I,). For even lower
output voltages, point (11) will be reached when further
increasing of uc2 cannot force T2 to conduct the saturation
current from T,, i.e., this latter transistor is driven into the
ohmic operating region as well. Note that during all phases
T, stays in saturation because U,,, > U,,, is asserted by
uGs2 being positive.
In the following a mathematical description for the
lowest value of U , where the circuit still “performs properly” is developed. With proper performance it is often
meant that all transistors of the respective circuit are
operating in the saturated mode [l].The output voltage
where the first transistor, in our case T2, leaves the saturated operating mode is marked with (I) in Fig. 2. This
voltage shall subsequently be called Vomi,(RGC,s) and
can be calculated easily: if (1) or (2) holds, the voltage at
the drain of T, is VGsl - VrH,while the minimum voltage
across T, is V,, - VTH.Thus we obtain

In the case where U [ is not constant, its maximum value
max( ucsl) must be inserted for V,,,. This asserts saturated
operation of T, for all input voltages. A more elaborate
method to handle variable input voltages is to adaptively
bias the feedback amplifier according to (1).An analogous
method for the simple cascode circuit is described in [3].
Equation (1) shows that it is only possible to find
solutions for p, and I , if the input voltage V,,, is larger
than 2VTH.This is not a serious limitation, however, because a relatively large gate-source voltage is often justified for other reasons as well: e.g., to obtain a temperature-independent operating point [4] or to reduce the l/f
noise contribution of current-source or current-mirror
transistors. Note that (1) does not state that it is impossible to use the RGC circuit with gate voltages below 2VTH,
but only that in this case no optimum output swing is
achieved.
If the amplifier transistor T, is operated in weak inversion ( T I and T2 remain in strong inversion), the above- for the minimum output voltage of the RGC circuit leav-

291

SACKINGER AND GUGGENBUHL: HIGH-SWING, HIGH-IMPEDANCE MOS CASCODE CIRCUIT

“i
‘out

where
(7)
OBC

(OBC)

Fig. 3. Output resistance as a function of the output voltage for the
RGC and the OBC circuits, respectively.

ing both stacked transistors in saturation. Note that this
voltage is equal to the minimum output voltage usually
given for the improved cascode current source [l,p. 2251.
From (3) it might seem that we have gained nothing
compared to the optimally biased simple cascode with
respect to voltage swing. However, the comparison based
on this “saturation criterion” is not a fair one. It is more
appropriate to define the minimum output voltage of the
RGC circuit as the voltage where the small-signal output
resistance of the regulated cascode is equal to that of the
improved cascode in saturation. This new limit shall be
denoted VOmi,(RGC,r ) , and its definition is illustrated in
Fig. 3.
AC parameters like the output resistance are discussed
in the next section. However, in order to calculate
VOmi,(RGC,r ) we have to use some of the results in
advance. The small-signal output resistance for low frequencies of the RGC and OBC circuits can be approximated by

and the corresponding values for gal, gm2,and go, of the
RGC and OBC circuits in saturation are taken to be equal.
To compare the minimum output voltages of the regulated and the optimally biased simple cascode, a merit
factor q, is defined:

To obtain a meaningful result, the RGC and OBC circuits
on which the comparison is based should have comparable
dimensions. It seems reasonable to assume equal output
currents I , for both circuits and that the lower and upper
transistors (T, and T,) of the respective circuits have
corresponding betas (p, and p2). The merit factor of (8)
then becomes

IB,
11,

=

rK I I ’

(9)

The merit factor q, is independent of the output current or
the input voltage and improves for an increasing p1/p2
ratio or a decreasing q.The latter means that a high loop
gain in the regulated cascode is profitable.
In order to illustrate the theoretical calculations as a
basis
for later approximations of symbolic expressions, we
(4)
will introduce a practical circuit example which has been
simulated with ESPICE.’ The transistors feature the diand
mensions T, = T, = T3= 25 pm/3 pm and are simulated
for the 3-pm SACMOS technology [ 5 ] .The current source
I , is realized with a 3-pm/3-pm p-channel current mirror
and a 4-MQ resistor from the mirror input to ground
supplying about 1.3 pA at VDD= 5 V. The input voltage is
respectively, where go, is the output conductance and g,,
chosen to be 1.1 V yielding an output current of I o =
is the transconductance of the respective transistor
(for 60 pA. The simulated V,, is 0.60 V which is exactly one
v = 1,2,3) and goi is the conductance of the current source threshold voltage (0.5 V) below V,, confirming the correct
Zl. We see from (4) and ( 5 ) that r,,,(RGC) exceeds dimensions of the feedback amplifier according to (1). For
rou,(OBC) by a factor gm3/( go, + goi), which approxi- an output voltage of 5 V all transistors are in saturation
mately corresponds to the loop gain of the RGC circuit and a uG2 of 1.63 V and an output resistance of 905 MQ
and is typically in the neighborhood of 100.
are obtained. For an output voltage of 0.83 V, T, is in the
As shown earlier, if U , of the RGC circuit is lowered, ohmic operating region and uG2 increases to 1.76 V while
the first transistor leaving the saturated operating mode is the output resistance decreases to 13.0 MQ. This is about
T2. This means that the output resistance of the regulated the output resistance of the corresponding simple cascode
cascode will decrease initially because the factor g,,/go,
and thus VOmin(RGC,
r ) = 0.83 V. The merit factor for the
of (4) becomes smaller when T, enters into the ohmic output swing follows as q, = (1.63 V-0.50 V)/0.83 V =
operation mode. From the MOS equation and (4) and (5), 1.36.
the minimum output voltage VOmi,(RGC,r)can be deInserting the numbers &/p2 = 1 and \k = 0.88 (calcurived:
lated with the small-signal parameters of the next section)
into (9) yields a theoretical merit factor q, =1.29.
‘ESPICE (Extended Simulation Program with Integrated Circuit Emphasis) is an extension of SPICE developed by Phdips.

292

IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL.

TABLE I
TYPICAL
SMALL-SIGNAL
PARAMETERS
OF THE TRANSISTORS
CONSTITUTING
A N RGC CIRCUIT
Parameter
2'1 I Tz (sat) I 2'2 (ohm) I T3
I Srn
I 205 I
222 I
133 I 33
3.5
148 0.3
5.1
90
41 44
44
44
c g
8.4
22 8.4
8.4
Cgd
68 44
30
58
C O
c h
78
78
-

I

25, NO. 1, FEBRUARY 1990

I

0

Y11

(-56.4
(-56.4

I

I

I .

YZ?

5, B

xb

Y23

Substrate

Fig. 4. Small-signal model of an MOS transistor.

B. Small-Signal Parameters

Yij

All small-signal calculations presented in this section are
based on the ac MOS-transistor model shown in Fig. 4.
The source and bulk terminals of all transistors are supposed to be interconnected as shown in Fig. 1. As a
consequence of the floating p-well of T2, the transistor has
a capacitance C,,, from the source/bulk node to the substrate ( udd). The current source I , is modeled by a parallel
connection of a conductance go,, a capacitance CO,,
and a
transconductance g,, controlled by udd. The latter models
the power-supply dependence of the auxiliary current
source.
The regulated cascode circuit of Fig. 1 is a three-port
network whose small-signal characteristics can be described by nine y parameters in the s domain:
= y11Y
I o = Y21Y
31y
'dd = Y

+ Y12vo + Y 1 3 h d
+ Y22K + Y

+ Y320'

2 3 b

+ y33'dd.

(10)

The interesting parameters, namely yll (input admittance),
y,, (reverse admittance), y,, (transmittance), y,, (output
admittance), and y,, (influence of Vdd to Z,) have been
calculated symbolically with the help of the SYNAP and
MACSYMA programs.2 The expressions thus obtained are
very large and unwieldy. It is therefore reasonable to
evaluate these symbolic expressions in a first step for
typical numerical values in order to become familiar with
the parameter's order of magnitude and the approximate
pole/zero locations.
In Table I typical values for the transistor's small-signal
parameters are given. The values for the current-source
small-signal model are go, = 0.16 pS, CO,= 2.7 fF, and
g,, = 0.29 p S . All values correspond to the example circuit
'SYNAP (SYmbolic aNAlysis Program) is a circuit analysis program
developed at the Integrated Systems Laboratory. ETHZ, and CSEM,
Switzerland. MACSYMA (MAC'S SYmbolic MAnipulation system) is a
computer algebra program developed at the M.I.T. Laboratory for Computer Science.

- 63.6i)MHz

0
-1l4kHz
-98.2 MHz
- 125 MHz
-414 MHz
+3.88 GHz
-16.1 kHz
-27.7 MHz
-85.9MHz
+145 kHz
-157 MHz
-305 MHz
poles
(-45.4 + 71.4i) MHz
(-45.4 - 71.4i) MHz

Yl?

YZl

I

+ 63.61')MHz

-

0
-26.5 MHz
-130 MHz
0
-533 kHz
-357 MHz
-29.8 MHz
-423 MHz
+3.88GHz
-98.1 kHz
-20.2 MHz
-324 MHz
+140 kHz
-29.8 MHz
-401 MHz

-32.7 MHz
-105 MHz

TABLE I11
NUMENCAL
VALUESFOR THE CAPACITANCES
AND
(TRANS-)CONDUCTANCES
OF THE ?: PARAMETERS
BASEDON THE VALUES OF TABLE
1

I Parameter I
I ci

I

Saturated Case
52.5fF
0.00182fF
205 pS
1.1 nS

1 T? not Saturated I
I

52.6fF
0.127fF
205 p S
76.8 nS

1

introduced in the previous section. The parameters of T2
are given for the saturated and the nonsaturated operating
modes discussed in the example.
The numerical values for the poles and zeros of the y
parameters for two cases-1) all transistors saturated and
2) all transistors except T, saturated-are summarized in
Table 11. Parameters y,, and y2* have nonzero dc values
that we will denote as g, and go, re~pectively.~
Because
parameters y,, and y,, are zero at dc, we eliminate the
respective zero and specify the corresponding capacitances
C, and C, at dc. Numerical values for these (trans-)conductances and capacitances are given in Table 111.
In order to obtain a simple design equation, we will now
ignore all poles and zeros above 20 MHz in Table 11. With
this assumption the y parameters can be written in the
form
y,,

=

sc,

y,,

=-

scr(l+S T , )

3Some symbols like g,, have several meanings in t h s text. For example,
g can stand for the output conductance of a single transistor, of the
$GC circuit, or of an application circuit. From the context, however, the
intended meaning should always be obvious.

SACKINGER

AND G U G G E N B ~ H LHIGH-SWING,
:
HIGH-IMPEDANCE MOS CASCODE CIRCUIT

The following symbolic approximations for the capacitances and (trans-)conductances have been obtained:

c,= Cgl+ Cgdl
c r = Cgdl.

go2 (go3

+ go,)

gm~gm3

R m = gml

go = go,.

go2 ( go3 + go,)
gm2gm3

293

C. Noise

A noise analysis of the RGC circuit for low frequencies
has been carried out. For this purpose noise sources u : ~are
gate leads of all transistors T, and a noise
inserted into the current source iil is connected in parallel to I,. The
small-signal circuit of Fig. 4, without the capacitors, was
used to model the low-frequency behavior of the transistor.
With these assumptions the equivalent noise source U&
at the input of the circuit has been approximated:

go,

gmdd =

( go, + gm, ) . -

(12)

g m3

and

where

In the above equations C,, is the sum of Cg2 and C,,,.
While C, and g,, of the regulated cascode circuit are about
the same as those of a single transistor ( Tl),the parameters
C,. and g, are improved by a factor gm2/go2.gm3/
( g o , + g,,), that is the intrinsic gain of T2 times the amplifier gain. The power-supply dependence is that of the
auxiliary current source (go,+ g,, ) reduced by a gain
factor gm3/gO1.The time constants T, and To depend
mostly on Cgd2.To will be larger than T, since it contains
two gain factors while T, contains only one. The right
half-plane zero described by Td is mainly due to Cb2.If the
p-well of T, were grounded, Td would be much smaller.
It is interesting to compare the y parameters of the
regulated cascode to those of the simple cascode. A calculation for the saturated simple cascode (OBC) shows that
the y parameters have the same form as those given in (11)
for the regulated cascode. The main difference is that the
output resistance rout= l/go of the RGC circuit is a factor
g m 3 / ( g o 3+ go,) larger than that of the simple cascode. We
can thus define a second merit factor 11, for the output
resistance in the saturated region:

Typical exact numbers for c2 based on the values of
in
in the saturated and 113 X
Table I are 117 X
the nonsaturated case; the values of c3 are 602 X I O p 6 and
584 x
respectively. The reason why the operating
mode of T2 has nearly no influence on the noise factors
can be understood by the following analogy. The equation
for the equivalent input noise voltage, (15), is similar to
that describing a three-stage amplifier whose first stage
consists of T,, second of T3 and I,, and third of T,. But
the gain of an amplifier’s last stage, which in our case
varies strongly with uo, is of practically no importance for
the input-referred noise performance.
Transistor Tl is the dominant noise source (U:,) in the
regulated as well as the simple cascode circuit; the noise
performances of both cascodes are therefore virtually the
same. On the other hand, the noise generated by T2 is
more fully suppressed in the RGC circuit than in the
in the example. On
simple cascode, where c, = 600 X
the other hand, the RGC circuit contains an additional
noise source introduced by the feedback amplifier, however, it contributes only a negligible amount of noise to uzq.

D. Large-Signal and Transient Behavior
The value for 11,. using the typical small-signal parameters
of Table I is 72. Furthermore, the regulated cascode features a 72 times lower feedback capacitance C,. The input
capacitance C, of the regulated cascode is smaller than
that of the simple one by about Cgdl.gm1/gm2
( = 7.8 fF
for the typical values). The dc power-supply dependence of
the simple cascode is determined by the stability of the
bias voltage V,, instead of the bias current Il. Both time
constants T, and To are increased with respect to the
simple cascode circuit.

The large-signal and transient behavior of the RGC
circuit shall be analyzed in a qualitative way. Typical
numbers obtained with ESPICE simulations for the example RGC circuit and a correspondingly dimensioned optimally biased simple cascode are given.
The dc large-signal output characteristics of the RGC
circuit has already been covered in Section 11. To summarize, the output conductance as well as the minimum
allowable output voltage are lower than that of the optimally biased simple cascode. The dc large-signal transfer
characteristic of the RGC circuit is quadratic as long as U ,

IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 2 5 , NO. 1, FEBRUARY

294

is small enough and Tl operates in saturation. For larger
ui, the relation between vi and io becomes linear, because
Tl enters into the ohmic operating region and uDsl is still
kept constant. In contrast, the output current of the simple
cascode is limited for large U , because uDsl breaks down
with increasing current. In our example, the RGC circuit
delivers 320 p A for U, = 2 V, while the simple cascode
supplies only 170 pA for the same input voltage. This
means that the large-signal transfer characteristic of the
RGC circuit is superior to that of the simple cascode.
If a positive voltage step is applied to the input of the
RGC circuit, uDsl decreases initially and then is regulated
back to its original value. Because of the noninverting
feedforward path (mainly through C,,) of the feedback
amplifier (T,, Zl),this initial breakdown will be larger than
in the nonregulated case. As a consequence Tl may temporarily be driven into the ohmic operating mode thus
delivering less current than expected. If an input voltage
step from 0.7 to 1.1 V is applied to the example circuits,
the full current is reached after 18 ns for the RGC and
after 8 ns for the simple cascode circuit. This effect may
cause a slew-rate reduction of the respective op amp or
OTA to which the regulated cascode is applied. To avoid
t h s effect, a feedback amplifier with low feedforward
should be used. A negative input-voltage step has no
corresponding effect on the output current.
If the input or output voltage of the RGC circuit is
forced to zero, the output of the feedback amplifier will
saturate near ground or VDD,respectively. Switching on
the input or output voltage thus necessitates the amplifier
output to slew several volts to reach its operating value. In
the example circuit a delay of about 100 ns from input- or
output-voltage switching to the respective output-current
change is observed. The corresponding delays of the simple
cascode are a few nanoseconds. In switching applications
like comparators the output swing of the feedback amplifier should therefore be limited, e.g., by clamping.
111. BASIC APPLICATIONS
Some basic applications of the RGC circuit are analyzed
and compared to conventional implementations. The circuits being discussed are a current mirror, a constant
current source, and a voltage amplifier.
A . Regulated Cascode Current Mirror
A current mirror based on two RGC circuits is shown in
Fig. 5. The input current is denoted as i, and the output
current is designated io. Because of the circuit's symmetric
topology, there is virtually no systematic error in the ratio
of the input and output currents at dc in contrast to, e.g.,
the simple Wilson current mirror [ l ,p. 2351. The output
swing of the regulated cascode current mirror is comparable to that of the simple current mirror [l, p. 2271 and
much better than that of the simple cascode current mirror
[ l , p. 2331, because the latter is neither regulated nor
optimally biased. Compared to other stacked current mir-

L

A

L

1990

A

Fig. 5. Current mirror based on two RGC circuits

rors (cascode or Wilson), the regulated cascode current
mirror has the advantage of a lower input-voltage drop U,:
For the RGC current mirror U [ is equal to the gate-source
voltage of T I , while in the other cases the sum of two
gate-source voltages is lost. The simple cascode and simple current mirror need no bias sources and thus have the
advantage of power-supply independence at dc.
If we assume that the regulated cascodes in the left
(primed) and right (unprimed) part of the current-mirror
circuit (Fig. 5 ) are characterized by equal small-signal
parameters and the input is driven by an ideal current
source, we can approximate the output admittance yo =
Zu/Vufor vd, = 0 as

where

The result obtained is approximately equal to y22 of the
RGC circuit alone. Since there is a single low-frequency
zero, the output admittance yo can be modeled by a
parallel connection of rout and CO,,. The main contribution
to the output capacitance is Cgd2.
When T2 is driven into
the ohmic region, g o 2 / g , , will increase and C,,,, will add
some extra capacitance to CO,,. This increase of the output
capacitance can also be explained by the fact that for low
output voltages the gate voltage of T2 is strongly dependent on uo (see Fig. 2), thus giving rise to a charge transfer
between the output terminal and T2.
It is interesting to compare the output admittance of the
regulated cascode current mirror to that of other current
mirrors. Approximative calculations done for the simple
current mirror shown that
1
rout = go1

Calculations done for the simple cascode current mirror

295

SKCKINGER AND GUGGENBUHL: HIGH-SWING. HIGH-IMPEDANCE MOS CASCODE CIRCUIT

yield

Beside the expected differences in the output resistances,
there are also significant differences in the output capacitances. Using our sample values, we get 47.1 fF for the
simple current source, 20.4 fF for the cascode current
source, and 10.9 fF for the regulated cascode current
source. The capacitance of the simple current mirror is
mainly determined by Col, that of the simple cascode
mirror is about 2Cgd2, and that of the regulated cascode
mirror is approximately C,,,. How can the factor 2 in the
output capacitance of the simple cascode be explained?
This is a consequence of the capacitive current through
Cgd2which flows into the biasing network. Because this
network is at the same time the current-mirror input path,
this current is mirrored to the output where it appears a
second time. In the regulated cascode current mirror this
capacitive current flows into a path isolated from the
current-mirror input, thus explaining the lower output
capacitance of the regulated cascode current mirror.
The small-signal current-transfer function A , (s) = I o / I l
for V, = V,, = 0 has been investigated numerically. The dc
value of A , ( s ) is very close to one, as expected. Unfortunately, A , ( s ) has more than one dominant pole and an
approximative formula of the frequency behavior has not
been found. Numerical calculations based on our example
circuit yield three poles, one at - 90.9 MHz and the others
at ( - 26.1 136i) MHz, as well as three zeros located at
- 125 MHz, -414 MHz, and +3.88 GHz. This corresponds to a 3-dB low-pass bandwidth of 200 MHz which
compares to the bandwidths of the simple current mirror
and the cascode current mirror with 270 and 200 MHz,
respectively.
From the complex-conjugated poles at ( - 26.1 & 1362)
MHz, which are caused by the feedback mechanism of the
RGC circuits, one can expect a peaking of the currenttransfer function. A peaking of 7 dB at 140 MHz can
actually be observed in the example, but it is not a serious
problem for most applications.
B. Regulated Cascode Constant Current Source

The circuit of Fig. 5 can also be used as a constant
current source, if i, is kept constant. When the circuit is
used as a current source, i.e., an exact matching of i, and
io is not imperative, the left part of the circuit (T;, T i , T i ,
and 1;) can be replaced by a single gate-drain connected
transistor ( T;), thus simplifying the original circuit. For
the case where the circuit is driven by a bias voltage
VI = VBIAS,the left part of the circuit can be omitted
completely. These simplifications have little influence on
the output characteristic and the above results for y, also
apply to the regulated cascode current source.

VDO

1

Fig. 6.

1

1

Single-ended amplifier using one RGC circuit as a transconductance element and a second one as current source.

The output characteristics of the simple current source
[l, p. 2191 and the standard cascode current source [l, p.
2241 are equal to the corresponding mirrors discussed
above. The improved cascode current source [l,p. 2261 is
optimally biased and therefore features a better output
swing than the simple cascode current source, but as has
been shown in Section 11, it is still inferior to that of the
regulated cascode current source. The output impedance of
the improved cascode can be approximated by
1 gn12
rout= - .
go,

go2

The output resistance is equal to that of the simple cascode, but the output capacitance (12.0 fF in the example)
corresponds to that of the regulated cascode because the
bias network of the improved cascode is decoupled from
the input path. Note, that the improved cascode current
source, like the regulated cascode current source, has a dc
power-supply dependence.

C. Regulated Cascode Voltage Amplifier
The single-ended amplifier depicted in Fig. 6 is based on
two complementary RGC circuit blocks. The unprimed
one acts as a transconductance element while the primed
one is used as a constant current source as discussed
earlier. This amplifier features a single low-frequency pole
and a large output swing. A similar circuit is investigated
in [6]. The use of such an amplifier with capacitive loading
is typical in switched-capacitor circuits where the static
gain A,, determines the precision of these circuits.
An approximation based on the typical values of the
example RGC circuit and C, = 1 p F yields
1

where

296

IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS. VOL.

25. NO. 1, FEBRUARY 1990

RGC OBC

7
A

215

0
I(L
w

5

210

3

a

I-

0
3

The gain-bandwidth product lAuol/Ta is thus g m l / C L .
For the example circuit we obtain an A,, of 99 dB and a
gain-bandwidth product of 27.31.9 MHz.
A conventional three-stage amplifier exhibits a similar
dc gain, but it would necessitate a compensation scheme,
because it has three poles at nearby frequencies. The
regulated cascode amplifier, featuring only one load-capacitor dependent pole, has the advantage of being self-compensating.
The input conductance of the regulated cascode amplifier can be approximated by
l+sT,
y, = SCin--1 + sT,

,

205'
0

Fig. 7. Test circuit for measuring the output characteristics of a regulated (S, open) and an optimally biased simple cascode (S, closed)
circuit.

,
'

'

'

'

'

'

I

4

OUTPUT VOLTAGE vo [ V I

Fig. 8. Measured output characteristics of the RGC and OBC circuits
for low output voltages. In order to illustrate the regulating process,
uGz is also plotted (scale on the right-hand side).
RGC OBC

7

215

I

;a
OBC-

20 5

0

2

4

OUTPUT VOLTAGE vo[V]

Fig. 9. Measured output characteristics of the RGC and OBC circuits
for low output voltages. On the right-hand scale the dependence of
uDsl is given.

where
simple cascode. The input voltage V, = V, = V,, = 1.4 V
and the auxiliary current source I , = 1.4 pA are constant.
Il has been chosen according to (1) such that the drain
voltage of T, is one threshold voltage below its gate
voltage; this is VDsl=0.75 V for a measured threshold
voltage VTH=0.65 V. During the measurement the output voltage uo is swept while the output current io and
Ci:, is the input capacitance for frequencies much higher the node voltages uDsl and uG2 are monitored with a
than the pole (-344 Hz) and zero (-1.44 kHz) of the HP 4145A semiconductor parameter analyzer.
input admittance. For very low frequencies the input caThe plot of Fig. 8 shows the output current and the gate
pacitance is relatively high due to the Miller multiplication voltage of T2 of the RGC and the OBC circuits for an
of Cgdl ( Ci, = 221 fF); for frequencies above some kilo- output voltage range of 0 to 4 V. The higher output
hertz this capacitance reduces to about Cgl (CL = 52.8 fF). resistance and larger voltage swing of the RGC circuit can
It is also possible to use the RGC circuit to improve a be seen clearly from this measurement. The underlying
differential amplifier. In this case the differential-pair tran- regulating process is also illustrated nicely by this figure:
sistcrs are each replaced by a RGC circuit and the current for output voltages above 1.5 V, uG2 varies only very little
mirror is built as described in Section III-A. The advan- and is about equal to that of the simple cascode. The small
tages are the same as for the single-ended amplifier: high variations compensate for the channel-length modulation
gain, self-compensation, and large output swing.
of T2 and thus make the output resistance high. Below
1.5 V, uG2 increases rapidly driving T, into the ohmic
operation region. As a consequence io is kept stable for
IV. EXPERIMENTAL
RESULTS
output voltages well below 1 V. Fig. 9 additionally shows
A test circuit which can be operated as a regulated or an the drain-source voltage of T,. This plot confirms that I ,
optimally biased simple cascode has been bread-boarded for the regulated cascode and V, for the simple cascode are
(see Fig. 7). All transistors used in the circuit are fabri- chosen such that T, is biased at the edge of saturation
cated in a 4-pm technology and have the dimensions (0.75 V) in both cases, and thus the comparison is fair. It is
W = 7 pm and L = 4 pm. If switch S , is open, the gate of shown by the curves how the feedback loop in the RGC
T, is controlled by the feedback amplifier (T3,Zl),that is, circuit stabilizes uDSl for as low voltages as possible. An
the circuit operates as a regulated cascode; if S, is closed, analogous measurement to that depicted in Fig. 8 has been
the gate voltage of T, is supplied by the voltage source V, carried out for the larger output-voltage range of 0 to 30 V
which is chosen such that the circuit is an optimally biased in Fig. 10. For the simple cascode a significant increase in

297

SACKINGERA N D G U G G E N B U H L :HIGH-SWING, HIGH-IMPEDANCEMOS CASCODE CIRCUIT

Q

230

,
1
0

-

OBC-

k-

z

w
a:

fj

>”
W

120::

RGC+

220-

3
+

.

c
a

0
3

.

21 0

-I-=:.I_

I ?

cOBC
+RGC

-_.

1 1 5 g

output current above 12 V due to carrier multiplication
can be noticed, until breakdown takes place at about 27 V.
In contrast, the regulated cascode supplies a stable output
current up to the breakdown voltage. The plot shows the
feedback mechanism of the RGC circuit, i.e., how the gate
voltage of T, varies in order to suppress the effects of
carrier multiplication.
In order to compare these experimental results with the
theory, the characteristic parameters of the transistors used
for the measurements in Figs. 8-10 have been determined
experimentally in the respective operating point: g,, =
g,, = 57 PS, gm3 = 12 PS, go, = go, = 3.3 PS, go, + go, =
0.11 pS, p l = p 2 = 7 5 pA/V2, VT,=0.65 V, and I o =
21 pA.
From (6) and (3) we can calculate the minimum output
voltages for the two cascode circuits: Vo-(RGC, r ) = 0.75
V 0.20 V = 0.95 V and V,-(OBC>
= 0.75 V + 0.75 V =
1.5 V = Vo-(RGC, s). The merit factor for the output
swing of the RGC circuit thus is q s =1.57, which is
confirmed by (9). The theoretical values for the minimum
voltages are marked in Figs. 8 and 9; they are in reasonable agreement with the measured curves. The plots suggest that the calculated value of Vo-(OBC) is optimistic
and the gain in output swing for the regulated cascode is
better than the calculated merit factor.
The theoretical values of the output resistances, (4) and
( 5 ) , for both cascodes are r,,,(RGC)=570 M a and
r,,,(OBC) = 5.2 M a corresponding to a merit factor q, =
110. If these resistances are compared to the slopes of the
curves in Fig. 10, we find that the actual output resistances
are larger than predicted. This discrepancy can be explained by the fact that the transistor output conductances
go,, go,, and go, used for the calculation were determined
at the edge of saturation. According to the simple MOS
model (with X f 0 V-’), these conductances should stay
constant in the whole saturated operating region; in reality, however, they decrease for drain-source voltages above
the edge of saturation, thus leading to a higher output
resistance.

+

V. CONCLUSIONS
A cascode circuit which improves the relevant analog
characteristics of MOS transistors like usable output-voltage swing, output resistance, and feedback capacitance
well beyond the values known for the simple cascodes used

today has been presented. The superiority of this regulated
cascode over the simple cascode circuit has been demonstrated analytically and experimentally. Applications of
t h s circuit include high-impedance tail current sources,
precision current mirrors, and differential amplifiers with
high-gain, common-mode, and power-supply rejection ratios. The regulated cascode circuit is suitable for VLSI and
high-frequency circuits where minimum-size transistors

high-frequency OTA. Further applications might be in
high-frequency, high-Q SC filters [lo].
The regulated cascode principle can also be realized in
bipolar technology resulting in similar advantages as those
described here.

ACKNOWLEDGMENT
The authors would like to thank P. E. Allen, W. C.
Black Jr., and J. Goette for useful discussions, S. J. Seda
for his program SYNAP, and the Centre Suisse d’Electronique et de Microtechnique SA for providing the MOS
transistors.

REFERENCES
P. E. Allen and D. R. Holberg, CMOS Analog Circuit Design.
New York: Holt, Rinehart and ‘?ston,
1987.
S. Wong and C. A. T. Salama, Impact of scaling on MOS analog
performance,” IEEE J . Solid-State Circuits, vol. SC-18, no. 1, pp.
106-114, Feb. 1983.
[31 R. Castello and P. R. Gray, “A high-performance micropower
switched-capacitor filter,” I E E E J . Solid-State Circuits, vol. SC-20,
no. 6, pp. 1122-1132, Dec. 1985.
[41 R. A. Blauschild, P. A. Tucci, R. S. Muller, and R. G. Meyer, “A
new NMOS temperature-stable voltage reference, IEEE J . SolidState Circuits, vol. SC-13. no. 6, pp, 767-773, Dec. 1978.
R. E. Luscher and J. Solo de Zaldivar, A high density CMOS
process,” in ISSCC Dig. Tech. Papers, 1985, pp. 260-261.
B. J. Hosticka, “Improvement of the gain of MOS amplifiers,”
I E E E J . Solid-State Circuits, vol. SC-14, no. 6, pp. 1111-1114, Dec.
1070

‘Sackinger and W. Gugenbuhl, “A versatile building block: The
CMOS differential difference amplifier,” I E E E J . Solid-State Circuits, vol. SC-22, no. 2, pp. 287-294, Apr. 1987.
[8] E. Sackinger and W. Guggenbuhl, “An analog trimming circuit
based on a floating-gate device,” IEEE J . Solid-State Circuits. vol.
23, no. 6 . pp. 1437-1440,Dec. 1988.
[9] E. Sackinger. “Theory and monolithic CMOS integration of a
differential difference amplifier,” Ph.D. dissertation, Swiss Federal
Institute of Technology, Zurich, 1989: also in Series in Microelectronics. W. Fichtner, W. Guggenbuhl, H. Melchior, and G. S.
Moschytz. Eds. Konstanz. W. Germany: Hartung-Gorre Verlag,
1989.
[lo] C. A. Laber and P. R. Gray, “A positive-feedback transconductance amplifier with applications to high-frequency, high-Q CMOS
switched-capacitor filters,” IEEE J . Solid-State Circuits, vol. 23,
no. 6, pp. 1370-1378, Dec. 1988.
[7]

Eduard Sackinger (S’84) was born in Basel,
Switzerland, on August 13, 1959. He received the
M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in electrical engineering
from the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology,
Zurich, Switzerland. in 1983 and 1989, respectively.
In the fall of 1983 he joined the Electronics
Laboratory of the Swiss Federal Institute of
Technology where he investigated analog applications to floating-gate devices. His doctoral
work was on the theory and CMOS integration

298

IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL.

He was an Assistant in the Department of
Electrical Engineering of the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology for about six years, while
pursuing the Ph.D. degree. Thereafter, he joined
Contraves AG, Switzerland, where he was Manager of an R&D Department, involved in the
field of electronic circuit and subsystem design.
Since 1973 he has been a full Professor of Electronic Circuit Design at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology. His main interests are lownoise circuits and computer hardware for signal

of a differential difference amplifier. Since September of 1989 he has
worked as a consultant for AT&T Bell Laboratories, Holmdel, NJ, in the
field of neural network chip design. His research interests include analog
CMOS integrated circuit design.

Walter Guggenbiihl (SM’60) received the diploma in electrical engineering
in 1950 from the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology, Zurich, Switzerland.

25, NO. 1, FEBRUARY 1990

processing.

