The passive margin of South America was originated after the
rupture and final separation of West Gondwana during the Early Cretaceous. This passive margin is regionally divided into three segments: Equatorial, Central and Austral (as presented by Moulin et al., 2010). In Brazil, the Southeastern margin (Santos, Campos and Espírito Santo Basins) corresponds to the southern part of the Central segment, and the Southern margin (Pelotas Basin), to the extreme north of the Austral segment, both separated by the Rio Grande Fracture Zone (or Florianópolis Fracture Zone) (Fig. 1). This boundary marks the passage of one system of volcanic rifts
in the Austral segment, which extends from Argentina, with sig- nificant wedges of seaward dipping reflectors (SDR) and non- deposition of salt (Abreu et al., 1997; Blaich et al., 2013; Bueno, 2004; Fontana, 1990; Mohriak et al., 2002), to a system of magma-poor rifts, with mantle exhumation and deposition of thick layers of evaporites at the end of the rift phase, which extends between Santos and Espírito Santo Basins (Zalán et al., 2011). This magma-poor margin corresponds to the most prolific oil-producing
province in Brazil, where the traditional turbidite and carbonate fields of the post-salt and giant to super-giant fields reservoired in pre-salt microbialites of Santos, Campos and Espírito Santo Basins are located. 


Adjacent to the Southern/Southeastern margin, on the onshore
portion, outcrops of extensive (almost 1,000,000 km2) and thick (up to 1500 m) tabular lava flows of Lower Cretaceous age occur, and are assigned to the ParanáeEtendeka Large Igneous Province (LIP). These flood basalts extruded onto the Paleozoic Paraná Basin (Serra Geral Formation), and extend underneath the adjacent ba- sins of the southern/southeastern margin (Thomaz Filho et al., 2000) where they constitute the economic basement of Santos (Camboriú Formation) and Campos (Cabiúnas Formation) Basins.
Their continuation in onshore Namíbia constitutes the Etendeka flood basalts (Turner et al.,1994). This once continuous basaltic lava flows, in conjunction with the offshore magmatism associated with
SDR wedges on the South American and African margins, was named South Atlantic LIP by Gladczenko et al. (1997) (Fig. 1). Over the past decades, several authors have highlighted the role
that magmatism played in the formation of the South Atlantic, a theme that even nowadays has not reached a consensus, particu- larly regarding the temporal relationship and evolution of the volcanism since its inception in the pre-rift phase up to the final breakup of Gondwana, (e.g. Becker et al., 2012; Blaich et al., 2011; Franke, 2012; Mohriak et al., 2012; Moulin et al., 2010; Torsvik et al., 2010; Zalán et al., 2011), to cite only the most recent.


Another important issue concerning the extent of magmatism in the southeastern and southern Atlantic margins is the precise definition of the crustal boundary, especially with respect to con- tinental crustal thinning, to the transition of the continental crust into oceanic crust, and to the age of breakup. We can notice that this discussion is far from reaching
consensus when analyzing traditional works such as Mohriak et al. (2002, 2008) and Zalán et al. (2009, 2011): the first marks the boundary along possible SDR wedges flanking all the basins, from Pelotas to Espírito Santo, and the second along exhumed mantle on the southeastern margin (Santos to Espírito Santo Basins). The differences are also present in recent works of reconstitution of Gondwana by Moulin et al. (2010) and Torsvik et al. (2009),as well as in later works by Aslanian and Moulin (2010) and Torsvik et al. (2010). Some of the key points on which the authors disagree are the crustal boundary used and its position, the age of the breakup and the intraplate deformations associated with the magmatism in the transition zone between the Austral and Central margins of the South Atlantic. Thus, the main objective of this paper is to contribute to the understanding of the role of this magmatism in the evolution of rifting until the breakup and formation of the South Atlantic. For this reason, we will approach the study of the magmatism in a regional context along the margin, in order to discuss the temporal evolution of volcanism between the different types of margins and the participation of magmatism in the pre-, syn-, post-rift and syn- breakup phases. After this regional vision, the focus of thework will be the Pelotas Basin where we will discuss the definition of different tectonic domains and crustal boundaries, the evolution of rifting and the formation and development of SDR. Finally, the chronology of events related to the fragmentation of West Gond- wana will be outlined. The regional area of study involves the entire exposure of the
ParanáeEtendeka LIP, as well as the marginal basins of southern/ southeastern Brazil (Pelotas, Santos, Campos and Espírito Santo Basins, Fig. 1). The total offshore area of the core of this study, the Pelotas Basin, is approximately 340,000 km2, bounded to the west by the coastline, to the east by the continental-oceanic crustal boundary (COB), to the north by the Florianópolis Fracture Zone (FFZ) and to the south by the Polônio High, in Uruguay (Fig. 1). Internally, it is divided by the Porto Alegre Lineament into two sub- basins: Northern sub-basin and Southern sub-basin (Bassetto et al., 2000; Bueno et al., 2007). In this paper, based on the interpretation of the rift architecture and of the crustal boundary we considered that the Chuí Lineament divides the Southern sub-basin into two parts.


The work was carried out based mainly in the seismic inter-
pretation of ultra-deep lines. Approximately 8000 linear kilometers of regional 2D seismic data shot by ION-GXT (Pelotas Span) in the Pelotas Basin were interpreted. These lines were time-migrated (PSTM) with 16 s of two-way travel time (twt), and depth migrated (PSDM) down to 40 km, both migrated by ION-GXT. Be- sides this seismic network in the Pelotas Basin, regional 2D and 3D seismic data in the Santos, Campos and Paraná Basins were used. Figure 1 shows the study area and the location of the sections analyzed in this article.