An Overview of TDI CMOS Image Sensor Charge
Transfer and Accumulation Techniques

Deyan Levski
Department of Engineering Science
University of Oxford
Parks Road, Oxford, UK
Email: deyanlevski@eng,ox,ac,uk

Abstract—An overview and fundamental design challenges of
Time-Delay-Integration (TDI) CMOS readout and accumulation
techiques is introduced. Major performance aspects with
CMOS TDI imaging have been introduced, followed by a brief
elaboration on existing charge transfer techniques including
Buffered Direct Injection (BDI) and Pipelined Charge Transfer
(PCT). A comparative study of existing Analog Accumulator
Readout (AAR) and Digital Accumulator Readout (DAR)
schemes has been introduced. Finally an elaboration of the
beneﬁts and drawbacks of both AAR and DAR techniques has
been conducted.

Index Terms - TDI, CMOS, CCD, Image Sensor, ADC,
Readout, Accumulator, Charge Transfer, Line Camera.

1, INTRODUCTION

MAGE SENSORS with high temporal resolution have been
in need since the early days of CCDs, One particular
imaging mode which aims to address the challenges

with imaging moving objects is Time-Delay Integration, TDI
is a method which effectively increases the integration time
without changing the imager frame rate, ﬁeld of View or
resolution, In many industrial applications the scene objects
have very predicmble velocity speeds, in such cases a TDI
camera system proves to be a very efﬁcient imaging technique,
Since the mid-19705 many CCD TDI imaging systems have
been reported [1], However, with the emergence of CMOS
active-pixel sensors (APS) in the past decade, the CMOS TDI
systems have become an area of extremely high interest due to
a number of advantages with CMOS processes, such as low
cost, on-chip integration with circuits for signal processing,
simpler camera system integration etc, This paper aims to
provide an overview of existing TDI CMOS readout and
accumulation techniques, Section II gives a brief introduction
of the TDI principle of operation, Section III discusses design
challenges and tradeoffs of CCD and CMOS TDI design,
Section IV provides an overview of some TDI CMOS charge
transfer and accumulation techniques,

11, TDI PRINCIPLE OF OPERATION

A schematic overview of the TDI principle is shown on
Figure 1, Typically a TDI imager has a very large aspect ratio
i,e, having signiﬁcantly more columns than rows, As the object
to be imaged is moving along the TDI columns the rows are

sequentially addressed and read out with a speed equal to the
velocity of the object,

RS,

2

R52 2

4T ”“
RS; ﬂ

RS4 a

    

Across Track

Fig. l. A principle operation diagram of TDI mode imaging.

For example every row starting from RS1 to RS4 is ad-
dressed sequentially for time T and the readout pixel voltage
is accumulated in the column-level accumulators A001 7
A00“, After all four rows have been scanned the accumulated
(integrated, hence TD-Integration) output voltage represents
the acquired value for one pixel in the 2D image plane, As
the object is continuously scanned along a 2D image can be
reconstructed, There are several inherent advantages with such
a scanning scheme,

1) Enhanced high scan speed due to used short discrete
integration times, or increased photosensitivity, hence an
ability to reconstruct a fast moving object image at very
low light levels,

2) The Signal-to-Noise Ratio (SNR) of the image is
boosted with 3dB for every doubling of the number of
smges N [2],[l],

3) Reading out and averaging multiple pixels also helps ad-
dressing pixel dark-current and sensitivity nonuniformi-
ties which translate as ﬁxed pattern noise in conventional
image sensors [1],

4) In CMOS TDIs the total equivalent dynamic range (DR)
of the pixel is increased,

A more elaborate introduction on the TDI imaging princi-
ples is presented by [l],

III. TRADEOFFS IN CCD AND CMOS TDI DESIGN

The TDI principle is inherent in CCD devices as the latter
are shifting charge columnwise and in sync with the imaged
object. The charge shift and accumulation process in a CCD
is noiseless as compared to CMOS APS. As the readout noise
is summed for every stage N, CMOS TDIs have a stressed
readout noise requirement. Subsection A discusses the signal
read noise requirements, dynamic range and the beneﬁts of
CMOS technologies over CCD.

Being able to follow object motion in the continuous domain
with existing image sensors is not possible due to their inher-
ent discrete integrate-and-readout schemes. The latter causes
degradation of the dynamic optical performance of the sensor.
Subsection B gives a brief overview on the rolling shutter
effects over the dynamic Modulation Transfer Function (MTF)
and optical performance of the imager.

A. Signal, Read Noise and Dynamic Range

In CMOS TDI devices various noise sources contribute
along the signal chain. The noise generated due to the source
follower charge-to-voltage conversion inside each row of pix-
els is summed for each TDI stage and therefore increases the
total noise with 0'5ng [2]. The aforementioned system
property is a major challenge in the design of CMOS TDI
devices. Pixel dark current, source follower, bias transistor l/f
and RTS noise as well as bitline sampling kTC noise has to
be minimized. If analog accumulators are used the induced
noise from the latter would be added with every stage, in the
case of addition in the digital domain the ADC induced noise
gets included in the accumulation signal chain.

The voltage noise induced by the pixel chain in CMOS
TDIs is usually addressed by choosing very short integration
times and designing high conversion gain (HCG) pixels. By
maximizing the bitline signal swing the noise requirements on
the readout circuitry can be relaxed. Alternatively designing
pixels with short integration times and a predeﬁned maximum
light intensity decreases readout time. With pixel signal S
addition with every stage and accumulation of uncorrelated
noise sources a general expression of the SNR for a CMOS
TDI can be expressed as:

SNR : 20log 
V N ‘7 31g + ‘73::

With unlimited accumulator size, the total full well capacity
of the sensor increases with every stage N, and the uncor-
related noise source with \/N, which gives an approxilmate
increase of the sensor’s dynamic range of 3dB per every stage
doubling or:

N w
DR : 20 log (L)
2 2
V Ngszg + Urd
It is worth noting that in contrast to CMOS T1315 a CCD

TDI device does not gain dynamic range with an increase of
the number of TDI stages N. A CCDs pixel needs an increased

full well capacity which can handle the ﬁnal output charge due
to the charge shift scheme of these devices. As the charge is
shifted through and the full well capcity being ﬁxed, the dark
current and other relevant noise sources deprive charge with
every integration stage reducing DR. The latter also forms
to be a key difference between CCD and CMOS TDI image
sensors.

B. Optical Performance

When fast moving objects are imaged with a TDI sensor,
the modulation fransfer function (MTF) of the imager is
fundamentally degraded due to the discrete nature of rolling
shutter and time-position mismatch from consecutive pixel
capturing. Additional losses in spatial resolution can occur in
TDI line sensors when the moving object derails from its initial
trajectory along track with one or more pixels. Disregarding
mechanical-time and angular misalignments between the ob-
jects and the imager, the largest source of MTF degradation
is the never synchronous subpixel information acquisition.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

e 7777 ~ g
m :1
m
-r ' " w
E 1 171,1 K
.ﬁ 0
.2 E.
3 T2 "1721'  ”' ” ' ” '” g
o 9
Q:  E
3 o
m 'Ts' ' ' '173'1'  ”' ” ' ” 3
a v o
g 7777 H :I
Q

 

Fig. 2. An illustration of the discrete step acquisition lead-lag effect in TDI
sensors.

Figure 2 shows an illustration of the lead-lag effect as-
sociated with TDI image sensors. For example, between the
acquisition instances 7'1, 7'2 and 7'3 the object is moving with
a consmnt linear speed, while the capture process in a TDI is
discrete, therefore if we compare the captures between 7'3 and
7'1 we can observe a fractional physical misalignment between
the acquired object ares. As the object is scanned along we
can observe a constant lead-lag motion which causes a spatial
resolution loss. The worst case discrete MTF of a TDI imager
at the nyquist frequency f7L due to the lead-lag effect can
therefore be expressed as [l] [3]:

sin(fn 7T t‘m/tim.)
fn 7T tm/tim

Certain techniques including splitting of pixels in 1/4 sub-
pixels [4] or the addition of light diffusors as in [5] have been
reported. In order to illustrate the effect of pixel integration and
line time difference Figure 3 shows a family plot of the discrete
MTF for different normalized integration and line times.

In a CMOS TDI with standard pixels having a line time
equalling pixel integration time a single addition of subsequent
pixels leads to an MTF of approximately 0.64 at fn/g which
combined with pixel aperture, optical and electric crosstalk

MTde :

 

 

 

 

 

 

u” :4”

 

Fig. 3. A family plot of the MTF vs normalized spatial frequency of one,
two and four sub-pixel architectures.

leads to an overly degraded MTF. Unlike CCDs which have
inherent column charge movement in typically four or more
times per line [1], CMOS TDIs need special design attention
with respect to their pixel readout and design, further details
with respect to MTF degradation are discussed by [2].

IV. CHARGE TRANSFER AND ACCUMULATION CMOS TDI
ARCHITECTURES

Numerous charge transfer and accumulation CMOS TDI
architectures have been reported [], a number of these have
similarities and can therefore be groupped in several sub-
methods. Subsections IV—A, IV-B and IV-C discuss analog
methods for TDI stage charge transfer, accumulation and
readout while an overview of digital accumulation techniques
is given in Subsection IV—D.

A. Buﬁ‘ered Direct Injection (BDI) technique

In infrared and near-infrared applications where pixel pho-
todiode noise is in the same order of magnitude as the photo-
generated signal, buffered direct injection (BDI) pixel circuits
have been previously reported [6], [7], [8], [9]. Increasing the
photodiode injection efﬁciency is impormnt for maximizing
the pixel signal-to-noise ratio. To address this issue a regulated
gain common-gate NMOS device is used to buffer the diode
to a sampling capacitor, Figure 4.

05.5. \&f 0,. off?— _' Va

¢tran

   

Vem 105 MUX

r

Fig. 4. A principle diagram of Buffered Direct Injection (BDI) readout
technique.

The negative feedback ampliﬁer is effectively decreasing
the input impedance of the common-gate (CG) stage and

therefore regulating its gain to close to unity. The circuit
beneﬁts from additional noise reduction of the CG stage which
is dampened with a factor of the ratio of the transconducmnces
of the regulating ampliﬁer and the CG NMOS stage, assuming
that the noise ﬂoor of the regulating ampliﬁer is much lower
than the CG stage. Some circuit beneﬁts and drawbacks are
summarized in the list below:

1) 100% Injection efﬁciency
2) Reduced noise, amt : gg—gﬁg—UCG + GA
3) Accumulation capacitor requirement per column and
TDI stage, resulting in column memory mismatch
4) Increased power consumption due to negative feedback
ampliﬁer, impact over pixel dark noise
5) Limited accumulation capacity
6) Large area due to storage capacitors and multiplexer
routing, low pixel ﬁll factor
Buffered direct injection techniques have been previously
used and applied to large format infrared line scanning appli-
cations [6], [7], [10], [8] where the pixel signal-to-noise ratio
in infrared (IR) detectors is typically low due to the lower
energy electromagnetic IR waves.

B. Pipelined Charge Transfer (PCT)

Pipelined transfer CMOS TDI readout schemes try to mimic
the charge transfer in CCDs and beneﬁt in reduced area and
power as compared to BDI techniques [11], [12]. Charge
transfer techniques base on shifting accumulated charge from
row to row pixels by means of in-pixel charge buffering. A
number of CMOS charge transfer solutions have been reported
[12], [13]. Figure 5 shows a principle schematic diagram of
the pipelined charge transfer technique.

 

 

 

 

 

r,,,,,,,,,,,

 

 

 

  

an

l/th:

Fig. 5. A principle diagram of Pipelined Charge Transfer (PCT) technique.

The iniUreset photodiode sequence is performed for only
the ﬁrst integration stage Pizg, the obtained charge result
after integration is buffered through an in-pixel unity-gain
buffer and sampled onto a memory capacitor CM. After
sampling completion CM is re-buffered and driven to the
consequtive pixel photodiode Pixl for further integration.
After all stages have been recycled, the stored value of the last
TDI stage P24357L is buffered and read out. The PCT technique
offers inherent signal accumulation, however at the cost of a

limited accumulation capacity and saturation nonimmunity. A
summary of the main circuit beneﬁts and drawbacks is listed
below:

1) Inherent TDI accumulation

2) Limited dynamic range, reduced for every TDI stage

3) Maximized pixel full well and low conversion gain
(LCG) pixel required

4) Increased noise due to LCG operation

5) Large area, low pixel ﬁll factor

With the PCT technique in-pixel bitline multiplexers can
be used, which allow dynamic pixel conﬁguration for non-
orthogonal readout. The latter scheme can compensate angular
object misalignments which degrade the MTF of the sensor
[12]. To address the low pixel ﬁll factor and high power
consumption of the in-pixel unity-gain buffers in PCT archi-
tectures, shared column ampliﬁer PCT techniques have been
reported [11]. The latter offer much lower area penalty at the
cost of increased signal transfer efﬁciency mismatch between
stages due to poor matching of global shared differential
ampliﬁers. The dynamic range offered by PCT techniques
is however limited by the charge storage capacity of the
pixels, thus with the addition of readout noise per every stage,
the dynamic range, similar to CCDs could be signiﬁcantly
compromised in large multi-stage TDI sensors.

C. Analog accumulator readout (AAR)

A technique which aims to sequentially accumulate TDI
rows by means of column-level analog accumulators is pre-
sented in [14], [15], [16]. In their work an AAR scheme is
comprised of a switched capacitor accumulator with input
offset compensation. Such a global per-column accumulator
scheme allows the usage of standard 4T pixels which relaxes
array design and maximizes ﬁll factor. Design complexity as
compared to charge transfer techniques is shifted from the
pixel to the column. A common analog accumulator scheme
used by [14], [15] is shown on Figure 6.

The accumulation scheme is also capable of performing
correlated double sampling and uses an N+1 stage analog
integrator comprised of an OTA and sampling and feedback
capacitors Cs and CF. During phase (p1 , the OTA is connected
in unity-gain feedback mode, 05 stores pixel reset level Vrst
with subtracted offset voltage V05 by the OTA, Cpl and CF2
have their bottom plates shorted, thus storing Vrst 7 V05 7 Van.
During phase (b2, Cpl and CF2 are connected in the negative
feedback loop, storing l/Tst 7 V519: After the end of phase (b2,
the process is repeated for the next group of capacitors and
TDI stage respectively. As the number of accumulator stages
exceeds the sensor TDI stages with one, a circular rotation
of the capacitor stages for each TDI stage is achieved. The
circular storage mechanism is shown on Figure 621, after an N-
number of inregrations the accumulator pipeline is ﬁlled and
readout by the ADC can be performed after every Nth stage
cycle. The output of the accumulator is following a cyclic
function of the form:

Pi14+1+2+3
I Pi13+4+1+2
P212+3+4+I
P211+2+3+4 pi11+2+3+4
_ J ..   .l

 

 

 

 

 

(b) Phase $2

Fig. 6. A principle diagram of analog accumulator readout as presented by
[14], [15].

Cs 
+ can]

In such voltage domain analog integrators TDI smge ac-
cumulation with correlated double sampling and offset can-
cellation can be acheved on the moment of readout by just
one switched capacitor circuit. The induced noise by every
consecutive integration stage is solely dependent by the switch
kTC and output ampliﬁer noise (Tam: The latter can be
minimized signiﬁcantly by using larger capacitors and low-
noise OTA design.

Vodsz [n1 : Vodszln r 1] (Vrstlnl r Vszglnl)

     

Vref

 

 

t

L:
l .

Fig. 7. A current-mode analog accumulator.

Alternatively a current-mode analog accumulator can also
be utilized in a column-parallel conﬁguration [16], [17] and
is shown on Figure 7. Switch SW1 and SW2 are controlled
by non-overlapping clock phases. During the initial phase
capacitors Cl and 02 are discharged and SW2 is closed. The
current Imt is branched into the OTA which acts as a voltage

Vpim mep

countin

_l_|_|_|_|_
Cllc

up/dn
prese
invert

  
   
 
    
   

discard flag

Fig. 8. A digital TDI accumulator as part of a Ramp ADC counter.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Vsigr Vsigz Vsigs V5194

| | | |
.0/
SH I SH I SH I SH I
VTC VTC VTC VTC

J_|_
cllc _
— PD COUNTER

VTC VTC VTC VTC elk J j,
/l /l /l /l D,
SH I SH I SH I SH I

| | | |
Vrstl Vrstz Vrstg Vrsm

Fig. 9. A time domain TDI accumulation scheme and TDC counter.

to current converter. The voltage drop on the diode connected
PFET is stored in C2, 1C2 is thus maintained stable during
SW2. When SW1 is closed, the current 1C2 is converted to
voltage with the help of the diode connected NFET, and is
stored in capacitor C1. During the next SW2 phase, the current
101 stored previously in the right branch is added with the new
sample inregration current Imt by the OTA and the charge on
C2 is refreshed. The voltage on the outer branch is buffered
(V0) with a conventional NMOS source follower.

Analog accumulator schemes offer high noise performance
due to the use of small number of active components, however
the latter have limited accumulation capacities and are often
sensitive to parasitics which degrade accumulator linearity
[15]. Current-mode schemes offer higher accumulation capac-
ities and beneﬁt in low-area at the cost of increased quiescent
current consumption. On the contrary schemes in the voltage
domain provide very low power consumption at the cost of
increased area due to multiple capacitor count for charge
storage during every TDI stage readout.

D. Digital accumulator readout (DAR)

The TDI accumulation process can alternatively be per-
formed in the digital domain [2], [18], [19], [20].

Column-parallel ADC can be used directly on the bitline
without additional signal pre—processing. Provided that the
ADC reaches noise and speed performances similar to analog
accumulators, digital TDI stage addition can be performed
after signal conversion. Several proposed ADC types are
inherently suitable for digiml accumulation, for example in
[2] and [19] a Ramp ADC with local counter and memory
is proposed, which can easily turn into a parallel adder or
subtracter acting as CDS and TDI accumulator, in [21] the
column-level decimators of a Sigma Delta ADC are utilized
for CDS and accumulation operations.

Digital domain operations also allow for early stage online
signal monitoring, in cases where pixel saturation has occured
binary comparators can be used as detection schemes which
discard not useful pixel integration information [2]. Figure 8
shows a principle diagram of a digital counter and accumulator
as part of a Ramp ADC. The up/dn signal sets the counter

in up and down count mode respectively, an external offset
value can be pre-loaded with the preset signal, the latter
typically is the previous TDI smge accumulation value. Online
CDS is performed by pixel reset level counter value inversion
with an invert signal and consecutive counting in positive
direction. The ripple carry counter bitcells Into 7 bitN can
also incorporate SRAM memory buffer cells for external dam
readout. A digital logic gate based comparator can be used
for signal monitoring and flagging of invalid (saturated) pixel
levels. Having control over the ADC counter preset value and
loading the previously accumulated value reduces memory
overhead and chip area. In the case of rolling shutter readout
a single memory cell buffer can be used, if snapshot shutter
is used additional memory buffers are essential [2].

As alternative digital accumulation method a Time-to-
Digital-Conversion (TDC) scheme is presented by [‘2]. In their
work a time domain accumulator is utilized by subsequently
chaining voltage to time converters (VTC). The basic principle
of TDC accumulation is shown on Figure 9. Two chains of
VTCs with local sample and hold (SH) circuits are used for
TDI stage accumulation, after Vrst and V5,g signal sampling
each VTC cell acquires proportional delay to the sampled
voltages, chaining all VTCs accumulates all delays trstlgn
and tSZglin and their difference is to be sensed by a phase
detector (PD) circuit. The VTCs can usually be implemented
by tunable current starved CMOS inverters Figure 10, the latter
schemes alter the inverter slew rate, which in terms translates
into time delay.

elk, clko

 

 

 

mp
1 MN elk.
 i,
 cllco
Vm ' w
_| «EN AVm]
‘ Am,
7 :._. t
AT: f(Vm)

Fig. 10. A principle overview of current starved voltage to time converter
cell.

Such approaches however as illustrated on Figure 10 are
very vulnerable to Vt), mismatch as AV“, variations directly
translate into time mismatch error. In its primitive form the
time to digiml conversion is achieved by gating a digital
counter with the phase detector output. TDC schemes offer
simple means of TDI accumulation, however at the cost of
additional design effort for minimizing VTC non-linearities
[22].

Another beneﬁt of digital accumulation schemes as com-
pared to their analog counterparts discussed earlier is that
they offer virtually unlimited accumulation space. With this
regard the dynamic range extension in TDI CIS would only
be dependent on the number of stages N, the full well capacity

of the pixel in a single stage and the toml combined noise from
the pixel and readout.

A challenge with DAR techniques is the low noise and
low conversion time requirement over the ADC as the latter
limits the frame rate of the imager. Interlieved schemes can be
used to alleviate the ADC speed requirement [23], the latter
however come at the cost of additional area, pixel ﬁll factor
and aperture reduction due to doubled bitline routing inside
the pixel array, which causes ﬁll factor reduction.

V. CONCLUSION

Several existing CMOS TDI image sensor readout and accu-
mulation techniques have been presented, in combination with
a basic system level overview of the TDI principle and design
challenges. While CMOS pipelined charge transfer techniques
try to mimic CCD operation and have inherited TDI accumu-
lation, the latter have signiﬁcant drawbacks due to dynamic
range reduction and large pixel size. Column-level analog
accumulator schemes offer a simple method for total pixel full
well extension with excellent noise performance, at the cost of
increased area and power. Digital accumulator schemes beneﬁt
from practically unlimited accumulation capacity, however
require additional design effort in ADC noise and conversion
speed optimization. With scaling of CMOS processes DAR
techniques appear to gain higher popularity due to faster data
conversion time capabilities for low geometry processes.

REFERENCES

[l] H.-S. Wong, Y. Yao, and E. Schlig, “Tdi charge-coupled devices: Design
and applications,” IBM Journal ofResearch and Development, vol. 36,
no. 1, pp. 837106, Jan 1992.

[2] G. Lepage, l. Bogaerts, and G. Meynants, “Time-delay-integration archi-
tectures in cmos image sensors,” Electron Devices, IEEE Transactions
on, vol. 56, no. 11, pp. 252472533, Nov 2009.

[3] M. Farrier and R. Dyck, “A large area tdi image sensor for low light
level imaging,” Electron Devices, IEEE Transactions on, vol. 27, no. 8,
pp. 168871693, Aug 1980.

[4] B. Dupont, “Cmos circuit for sensor with reduced read noise,”
Dec. 19 2013, uS Patent App. l3/524,542. [Online]. Available:
http://www.google.com/patents/US20130334399

[5] H. Bugnet, “Design and evaluation of tdi operation of cmos sensor for
industrial imaging application,” 2008.

[6] F.-K. Tsai, H.-Y. Huang, L.-K. Dai, C.-D. Chiang, P.-K. Weng, and Y.-C.
Chin, “A time-delay-integration cmos readout circuit for ir scanning,” in
Electronics, Circuits and Systems, 2002. 9th International Conference
on, vol. 1, 2002, pp. 3477350 Vol.1.

[7] G. Lepage, D. Dants, and W. Diels, “Cmos long linear array for
space application,” pp. 606807760680778, 2006. [Online]. Available:
http://dx.doi.org/l 0. l 1 17/1264 1945

[8] C. Kim, C. Hwang, B. Kim, Y. Lee, and H. Lee, “Cmos tdi readout
circuit that improves snr for satellite ir applications,” Electronics Letters,
vol. 44, no. 5, pp. 3467347, Feb 2008.

[9] K. W. Kozlowski L., “Infrared detector arrays.”

[10] Y. M., “Design of a roic for scanning type hgcdte lwir focal plane
arrays,” 2010.

K.-W. Cheng, C. Yin, C.-C. Hsieh, W.-H. Chang, H.-H. Tsai, and C.-F.
Chiu, “Time-delay integration readout with adjacent pixel signal transfer
for cmos image sensor,” in VLSI Design, Automation, and Test (VLSI-
DAT), 2012 International Symposium on, April 2012, pp. 14.

H. Yu, X. Qian, S. Chen, and K.-S. Low, “A time-delay-integration cmos
image sensor with pipelined charge transfer architecture,” in Circuits and
Systems (ISCAS), 2012 IEEE International Symposium on, May 2012,
pp. 162AL1627.

[11]

[12]

[13]

[14]

[15]

[16]

[17]

[18]

[19]

[20]

1le

[22]

[23]

C. B. Kim, B.-H. Kim, Y. S. Lee, H. Jung, and H. C. Lee, “Smart cmos
charge transfer readout circuit for time delay and integration arrays,”
in Custom Integrated Circuits Conference, 2006. CICC ’06. IEEE, Sept
2006, pp. 6517654.

K. Nie, S. Yao, J. Xu, and J. Gao, “Thirty two-stage cmos tdi image
sensor with on-chip analog accumulator,” Very Large Scale Integration
(VLSI) Systems, IEEE Transactions on, vol. 22, no. 4, pp. 9517956,
April 2014.

K. Nie, S. Yao, J. Xu, J. Gao, and Y. Xia, “A l28-stage analog
accumulator for cmos tdi image sensor,” Circuits and Systems 1: Regular
Papers, IEEE Transactions on, vol. 61, no. 7, pp. 195271961, July 2014.
E. Fox, “Cmos tdi image sensor,” Jun. 14 2005, uS Patent 6,906,749.
[Online]. Available: http://wwwgoogle.com/patents/US6906749

C. Gao, S. Yao, J. Xu, J. Gao, and K. Nie, “Analysis of noise of
current accumulator in time-delay-integration cmos image sensor,” in
Electron Devices and Solid-State Circuits (EDSSC), 20]] International
Conference of, Nov 2011, pp. 172.

“Digital-domain accumulation complementary metal oxide
semiconductor-time delay integration (cmos-tdi) image sensor,” Jul. 18
2012, cN Patent App. CN 201,210,068,8l6. [Online]. Available:
http://wwwgoogle.com/patents/CN102595068A7cl:en

G. Meynants, B. Wolfs, and J. Bogaerts, “Analog-to-digital conversion
in pixel arrays,” Jul. 24 2014, uS Patent App. 14/158,818. [Online].
Available: https://www.google.com/patents/US20140203956

J. X. Z. G. L. H. Chao Xu, Suying Yao, “A dynamic range extension
scheme applied to a tdi cmos image sensor,” February 2014, Vol.35,
No.2.

A. Mahmoodi, “Low-area low-power delta-sigma column and pixel
sensors,” in Doctoral Thesis, University ofAlberta, Fall 2011.

G. Roberts and M. Ali-Bakhshian, “A brief introduction to time-to-
digital and digital-to-time converters,” Circuits and Systems 11: Express
Briefs, IEEE Transactions on, vol. 57, no. 3, pp. 1537157, March 2010.
Y. Cazaux and B. Giffard, “Tdi image sensor in cmos technology with
high video capture rate,” May 28 2013, uS Patent 8,451,354. [Online].
Available: https://www.google.com/patents/US8451354

